# Weatheria - A Simple Weather App

'Weatheria' is a small project I am making as my Honors Contract in the course DATA 3401 (Introduction to Python). I am using Flet library for the GUI, and OpenWeatherAPI to fetch the required weather data.

While making the app, I wanted to use a GUI library that is easy to use and intuitive. So, during research I came across Flutter and Tkinter. I loved the more modern look of Flutter and started to learn about it. But I had a really difficult time getting the hang of it, and that is when I found the Flet library. It is essentially a fork of the Flutter library and is more simple to use. So, that is what I went with. The first thing that surprised me was that the GUI elements were essentially ordered in rows. I had an assumption that you could make any element and place it anywhere you like, but it was far more difficult than I anticipated. But I was amazed at all the elements and icons I had easy access to through the library. Another difficulty I faced was with fetching the data from API. The API provided data in a json fashion, so I had to read and understand how to fetch specific information I needed from all the data that was given. At first, I collected all the data in a list, and was thinking of using NumPy, but as I moved forward with the project I realized that user readability was key for any project. So, I opted to used a dictionary instead of a list, and that made it so much more intuitive to look at all the data. Another thing I found interesting is that it was really simple to import functions from one python file to another. So, instead of writing all the GUI and processing code in the same file, I chose to break them into two files and handle the API stuff in the 'backend.py' file. The other thing that I realized was that any simple app is basically a combination of conditionals and loops, and now I think I bettter understand the process of creating any project using Python.

The key takeaways I got from making this project are:
1) Before doing any coding, you need to be clear about what you want to make and how you want to accomplish it.
2) If you face any problems, try to break it down into simpler blocks and deal with each issue individually.
3) Creating a project is an on-going process, so the code does not need to be the most efficient and intuitive from the beginning. You can start with what you feel comfortable with and understand, and refine the code as you go.
4) Readability of the code is essential. So try to group similar functions together and name variables properly.
5) Learning to understand errors is really helpful for debugging the code.
